---
Layout: Post
Published: True
Title: Research Paper: Experienced-Focused Visualizaion
---

###Research Paper: Experienced-Focused Evaluations in Visualizaion

  In "Beyond Usabililty and Performance: A Review of User Experience-Focused Evaluations in Visualization", Saket et al. reviewed several studies regarding evaluating user experience in data visualization. They explain that while most research involving the evaluation of data visualization interfaces focuses on more traditional concepts of a 'successful' design, one that meets the design's usability goals - effectiveness, efficiency, learnability, and so on. The studies reviewed by Saket et al. suggest that there are other heuristics in evaluation visualizations are just as important. The report identifies three main heuristics found in the studies: Memorability and recall, engagement, and enjoyment. 
  Regarding memory, researchers tested how different visualizations have an impact on short-term, working, and long-term memory. Some studies found that visualizations with embellishments, as opposed to plain graphs and charts, significantly affected working memory, and that adding colors or visual elements added to the visualization's memorability. Other studies also found that the type of visualization also had an affect on memorability, namely network visualizations, which were found to allow for more accurate recall than other types of visualizations. As for engagement, researchers conducted studies comparing different types of visualizations, and measured subjects' 'engagement' in each. Engagement was measured differently among the studies; some measured it through time spend looking at each visualization, while others used product reaction cards, a collection of adjectives on cards that subjects can use to express their experience. Finally, enjoyment for different types of graphs through self-reporting and open questions. Overall, they found that map-like visuals were more enjoyable than other types of information visualization. However, these studies only test the memorability and engagement of the visuals themselves, and don't address the information itself, so there is yet to be research done in that aspect.

### Key Takeaways and Applications

  This study applies to our project as we rely heavily on attention-grabbing and engagement, in hopes of affecting users' behavior. In fact, the bulk of our interface is the visuals, since our two main tasks are reenforcing good behavior and conveying data. Regarding the behavior reenforcement, our main visual, the growing and shrinking tree, needs to be memorable, so that when a user goes to dispose of their trash, the image of that tree is in the back of their heads, making them more mindful of their choices. However, since the tree is less a form of conveying data, and more so of an idea, we can rely more on the principles of color, choosing those that grab attention more. As for the data portion of the interface, this study offers choices of visualizations that are more memorable and enjoyable, which is beneficial to our project. We don't want the learning portion of our interface to be too much work for the user. We would also prefer that the visualization sticks in our users' minds, even if missing the actual information. The mere fact that their choices have an affect on the data would hopefully be enough to keep them mindful of those choices. Overall, I believe more research in regards to data recollection, as opposed to mere recollection of the visual itself, could be much more beneficial to our design.
